---
author: damong
comments: true
date: 2008-09-12 20:38:18+00:00
layout: post
slug: '212'
title: Kundera's ‘The Hitchhiking Game'
wordpress_id: 212
categories:
- Read, Listen, Watch
tags:
- Milan Kundera
---

**Kundera's ‘The Hitchhiking Game'**

By Damon Griffin

Most people know of the book, or at least the film, _[The Unbearable Lightness of Being](http://nucat.lib.neu.edu/search~S13?/XThe+Unbearable+Lightness+of+Being&SORT=D/XThe+Unbearable+Lightness+of+Being&SORT=D&SUBKEY=The%20Unbearable%20Lightness%20of%20Being/1%2C6%2C6%2CE/frameset&FF=XThe+Unbearable+Lightness+of+Being&SORT=D&2%2C2%2C)_, which is Czech author Milan Kundera's best known work in the western world. This was indeed the first book of his I read, and with great enthusiasm. But this summer I read several more of his writings, which included a short story called ‘The Hitchhiking Game.' It is this story that I want to focus on for the remainder of this post. Because if you don't have time to read a novel, or just don't want to, you can at least read ‘The Hitchhiking Game,' and your' exposure to Kundera will be sufficient.

The story was originally written in the late 60's, during a time of immense political turmoil and artistic hope in Czechoslovakia. The ‘[Prague Spring'](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prague_Spring) had been crushed by Russian forces in 1967, but there was still much revolutionary artistic activity happening in literature. I mention this only to point out that ‘The Hitchhiking Game' was essentially a part of a long rebellion at the time, even though nowadays, it does not read that way. It is just a very weird, clever (maybe _too_ clever) love story to us now. A boy and his girlfriend (referred to throughout as only ‘the boy' and ‘the girl') stop for gas during a drive on their vacation; while waiting, the girl goes for a walk down the road and a few minutes later is picked up by her boyfriend; they proceed to play an inside-joke type of game, in which they do not know each other, and the girl is a submissive plaything and the boy is a tough misogynist; the game starts out as mere pretend, but gradually turns genuinely hostile. Yet in a sense, there are several rebellions in this story; the two lovers are rebelling against social norms by the very nature of their game, rebelling against each other by seeing how one-dimensional, shallow and eventually violent they can act towards one another. So in a sense the story is a series of rebellions, though also a character study in the truest sense of the word; the intensely detached tone and constant shift-of focus between the two characters somehow elicits the reader's sympathy for them.

The story can be found in the collection [_Laughable Loves_](http://nucat.lib.neu.edu/search~S13?/XLaughable+Loves&searchscope=13&SORT=DZ/XLaughable+Loves&searchscope=13&SORT=DZ&extended=1&SUBKEY=Laughable%20Loves/1%2C2%2C2%2CE/frameset&FF=XLaughable+Loves&searchscope=13&SORT=DZ&1%2C1%2C), alongside a few other memorable Kundera stories.
