---
author: Emily Sabo
comments: true
date: 2008-02-07 14:47:30+00:00
layout: post
slug: clueless
title: Clueless
wordpress_id: 45
categories:
- Read, Listen, Watch
tags:
- Clueless
- Emma
- Jane Austen
- Movie Adaptations
---




I vividly remember when the movie _Clueless _came out.  I was 11, and had recently moved to a new town, and was going to summer camp with most of the other girls in town.  One early social outing was for a big group of us to go see _Clueless_, a film that had certainly been well marketed as “super-cool” for the pre-teen set.  I was very excited to be included, and it was the first time I went to the movies with friends, and without adults.  The movie lived up to everyone’s expectations of humor and glamour.  The following year I was able to cajole two friends into seeing _Emma_ with me, and I at least, enjoyed seeing the parallels between the two movies.  




Fast-forward a few years, to when I finally **read **_Emma_, and it becomes my favorite novel.  I was then also able to better understand the nuances of two of my favorite movies.  When I got to college and was studying Austen, one surprise was that while most of my professors and teaching fellows decried Austen movie adaptations, they universally admired _Clueless_.  For my 19th Century Novel class, our professor even sponsored a movie viewing after we read _Emma_.  One highlight was my TF extolling the virtues of getting to see the physical embodiment of Emma in Alicia Silverstone.  Seeing the film as I got older (and many times since) my appreciation for it has deepened.  In each new viewing, I uncover a new example of director Amy Heckerling’s trenchant wit and I marvel at how she was able to so supplely adapt the novel to a very different modern setting.




What do you think of _Clueless_?  How about all the Austen and other ‘trendy’ literary adaptations and updates that followed its success?  Do you have any favorite going-to-the-movies stories?
