---
author: damong
comments: true
date: 2010-06-25 18:12:36+00:00
layout: post
slug: 20-20-24-hours-all-day
title: Announcing All Floor 24/7
wordpress_id: 1828
categories:
- Information and Society
- Library News and Events
tags:
- 24/7
- Library
- Northeastern
- study
---

Students who have experienced frustration over a lack of time or places to study need fear no more.

We are pleased to announce that beginning the evening of July 5th, Snell Library will be open twenty-four hours a day while classes are in session for current students, faculty and staff. For over a year, as a direct result of student demand, the first floor of the Library has been open 24x7. This access has proved a huge success with students. Based on this success, by expanding 24x7 access to all floors, the Library will better serve students who need to stay up late studying and who can also access a wider variety of resources than those available on the first floor.

Associate Dean for User Services, Lesley Milner said, “The Library has worked closely with student government, student employees at Snell Library, and frequent library users, to get their input to create optimal library hours and study space, for which there is always demand. For students, the resounding response was anytime, day and night, and as much space as possible.  Dean of Libraries, Will Wakeling shared, “We want to give students what they need to succeed in their academic careers— and of course we are delighted that students want 24 hour access to the Snell library building, which complements our suite of online library research tools and resources.”

For security purposes students, faculty, and staff are required to present and carry with them a valid Northeastern ID at all times. The public and alumni are welcome to use the Library during previously regularly scheduled hours.

Funding for _All Floor 24x7_ has been provided by the Office of the Provost.

See [http://www.lib.neu.edu](http://www.lib.neu.edu) for more information about hours and usage of Snell Library.

For questions about this change please contact Lesley Milner at [l.milner@neu.edu](mailto:l.milner@neu.edu).

A new era has dawned.
